---
# required metadata

title: [Finance Utilities ]
description: [Finance Utilities - Vendor Payments ]
author: [helenho]
manager: Kym Parker
ms.date: 02/03/2021
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: dynamics-ax-applications
ms.technology: 

# optional metadata

# ms.search.form:  [Finance Utilities ]
audience: [Application User]
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: [helenho]
ms.search.scope: [Which Operations client to show this topic as help for, to be set by content strategist, see list here: https://microsoft.sharepoint.com/teams/DynDoc/_layouts/15/WopiFrame.aspx?sourcedoc={23419e1c-eb64-42e9-aa9b-79875b428718}&action=edit&wd=target%28Core%20Dynamics%20AX%20CP%20requirements%2Eone%7C4CC185C0%2DEFAA%2D42CD%2D94B9%2D8F2A45E7F61A%2FVersions%20list%20for%20docs%20topics%7CC14BE630%2D5151%2D49D6%2D8305%2D554B5084593C%2F%29]
# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
# ms.custom: [used by loc for topics migrated from the wiki]
ms.search.region: [Global]
# ms.search.industry: [leave blank for most, retail, public sector]
ms.author: [helenho]
ms.search.validFrom: [September 2017]
ms.dyn365.ops.version: [name of release that feature was introduced in, see list here: https://microsoft.sharepoint.com/teams/DynDoc/_layouts/15/WopiFrame.aspx?sourcedoc={23419e1c-eb64-42e9-aa9b-79875b428718}&action=edit&wd=target%28Core%20Dynamics%20AX%20CP%20requirements%2Eone%7C4CC185C0%2DEFAA%2D42CD%2D94B9%2D8F2A45E7F61A%2FVersions%20list%20for%20docs%20topics%7CC14BE630%2D5151%2D49D6%2D8305%2D554B5084593C%2F%29]
---

## 4.3.	Vendor Payments
Note: Only applicable to custom DXC Finance Utilities EFT formats
Some improvements to the AP EFT payment processing have been created, these include: 
-	Balance Line, Totaling functions on the EFT File format.
-	Auto Generating a Payment Reference for each EFT payment which can be traced in Vendor’s Bank Statement, AX Bank Transactions/Reconciliation and Payment Advice.
-	Vendor Bank Account Name used on EFT file instead of Vendor Name.
-	Payment Advice report, a specific EFT Remittance Advice report has been produced which can be auto emailed at time of generating the EFT File.
-	EFT File Name generation 

### 4.3.1.	EFT File Balance Line

<b> CASH AND BANK MANAGEMENT > BANK ACCOUNTS > BANK ACCOUNTS </b>

Note: Only applicable to custom DXC Finance Utilities EFT formats

DXC has parameterised the format of the last two balancing lines on EFT file payments. Standard Australian EFT file formats provided by Microsoft always include a balancing line; however, many Australian banks do not require it or require an additional totaling line. It also hardcodes the order of the dollar values in this total and so this enhancement allows both settings to be controlled through Bank account parameters.

-	Highlight the Bank Account from which EFT payment is drawn and click Edit.
-	Expand the Payment Management fast Tab:
-	Extra Balance Line on EFT - some banks require an additional ‘balancing line’ to be the second last line of the EFT file generated. If your bank requires this, then tick this box, otherwise leave it un-ticked.
-	Include Balance Line in Record Count – as per the above point, if the extra line is to be included in the last record line count, tick this field, otherwise leave blank. This option is only selectable when the above option has been checked.
-	Total Line Order – here you can determine the order of amounts on the balance line in the EFT file.  The following options are available:
 <br> o	Total net, total credit, total debit
 <br> o	Total net, total debit, total credit
 <br> o	Total credit, total debit, total net
 <br> o	Total debit, total credit, total net


