---
layout: product-content
header: Finance Utilities
toc: true
---

**Accounts payable functionality**
The features as described in the following subsections are available for additional functionality for Vendor payments.

# Vendor payment journal

Setup requirements are discussed in detail at [Vendor payments setup](../../Setup/ACCOUNTS-PAYABLE/Vendor-payments.md). <br>

## Payment proposal

The following Vendor payment journal fields can be populated by Finance Utilities Accounts Payable functionality when the journal lines are created via payment proposal:

- **Lodgement reference** - [BPAY payment](BPAY-payment.md)
- **Sundry invoice details** - [Sundry payment](Sundry-payment.md)
  - Sundry vendor name
  - Sundry address
  - Sundry BSB\routing number
  - Sundry bank account

## Generate payments

The following fields can be updated on the Vendor payment journal lines after the payment file has been generated using **Generate payments**:

- **Payment reference** - [Setup](../../Setup/ACCOUNTS-PAYABLE/Vendor-payments.md#automatic-generation-of-payment-reference)
- **Export file name** - Export file name displayed on the Generate payments dialog is written to the relevant vendor payment journal lines
  - Note: This does not yet include file names generated by Electronic reporting config
  - [File name setup](../../Setup/ACCOUNTS-PAYABLE/Vendor-payments.md#eft-file-name-generation)

### Save payment file to secure location

When the EFT payment file is generated by using an Electronic reporting format, the file can also be automatically saved to an Azure blob, SFTP or FTP. <br>
[More details](Save-electronic-reporting-file-to-secure-location.md)

# Payment advice report

A custom-built report has been developed to provide a remittance advice to vendors upon processing a payment run. The report will show the vendor bank account details where the payment is deposited, as well as the invoices numbers paid, what amount and what discount applied. This remittance advice report works in conjunction with the **Smart Send** Emailing functionality. The report is available when Payment status is Sent.

The Payment advice report can be used in conjunction with sending via Email to the Vendor. Access to the new form is available from:

- Accounts payable payment journal, from 'Accounts Payable > Payments > Payment journal' – when set as Sent the journal line is available for printing
- Vendor's transactions
- Payment history on the vendor

# Payments report

When creating a **Vendor payment journal**, it can be useful to print the **Payments** report to reconcile vendor bank details, before generating the EFT file.
Finance utilities has added the following fields on the right for each Vendor payment line.
The source of the fields is linked to vendor payment journal line's Method of payment.

- **BSB / Account** - Where Method of payment isn't BPAY or Sundry
- **BPAY** - Where Method of payment's **BPAY method of payment** is _Yes_
- **Sundry** - Where Method of payment's **Sundry method of payment** is _Yes_

| Field                          | BSB / Account                                 | BPAY                                          | Sundry                                                      |
| :----------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Vendor Name**                | Vendor bank account's **Name**                | Vendor bank account's **Name**                | Vendor payment journal line's **Sundry vendor name**        |
| **BSB/Biller code**            | Vendor bank account's **Routing number**      | Vendor bank account's **Biller code**         | Vendor payment journal line's **Sundry BSB\routing number** |
| **Account No./Lodgement Ref.** | Vendor bank account's **Bank account number** | Vendor bank account's **Lodgement reference** | Vendor payment journal line's **Sundry bank account**       |
