---
layout: product-content
header: Smart Business Form Email Manager (SmartSend)
toc: true
---

# Electronic reporting
Smart Send supports the distribution of business documents generated by Electronic Reporting. Note: Electronic Reporting (ER) is an evolving Microsoft capability, and several underlying components are managed internally by Microsoft and may change over time. This introduces an increased delivery and go‑live risk when compared to more established reporting technologies such as SSRS.
To manage this risk, comprehensive end‑to‑end testing should be performed to confirm that the solution is fit for its intended purpose and can fit the standard process. Consideration should be given to Microsoft’s ongoing ER updates, feature changes, and the various configuration combinations available, including Electronic Reporting destinations and Named destinations.
These configurations should be carefully assessed before going live, as enabling or disabling ER destination features through Feature Management may have unintended impacts on standard system functionality and any integrated ISV solutions.
Any required refinements to the solution design, together with associated lead times, should be identified, planned, and addressed before deployment to the production environment.

Installed and configured ER formats can be selected from the *Report format* column in [Smart send parameters](../CONFIGURATION/Parameters). When used in conjunction with SSRS, it is recommended that the ER form be set as the default report by enabling the *default* flag in [Smart send parameters](../CONFIGURATION/Parameters). This will allow Smart Send to complete an Automatic ER Named Destination set-up as outlined in *Print Management* below

## Electronic reporting destinations
To use an electronic report with print management, an electronic report destination must be created for the selected report format. Although electronic report destinations can be used to enable multiple destinations, the Smart Send destination must be activated to deliver a document via Smart Send. However, for use with Customer or Vendor payment advice, the Electronic Named destination should be set to screen, and the Smart Send payment advice button should be utilised for document distribution 

## Print Management

When the matching default report from the Smart Send Email parameters is entered into the *report format* field as part of the Print management setup, Smart Send will generate a new ER Named Destination for the nominated form, prefixed with "Smart Send" the first time the report is published, for example, Smart Send Purchase Order (Excel), if required.  This defined destination for electronic reporting can then be modified to include additional outputs, such as the Screen. Currently, as part of the standard D365 FSCM offering, report outputs ignore the Electronic Reporting Destination and default to the Electronic Reporting Named destination 







