---
layout: releasenotes-content
header: Electronic Data Interchange (EDI)
title: 10.0.27.20220930
release-version: 10.0.27.20220930
state: archive
---

### Release 10.0.27.20220930

#### Build 10.0.27.202211173
Release date: 17 November 2022

<ins>Bug fixes</ins>

**Core module**	

Number	| Name		 | Description
:--	|:--		 |:--
11984	| Inbound text templates	| Fix CAR resolution change in 10.0.27.20220930 release for text template's line number calculation on import-to-staging step. <br> Issue for processing import-to-staging where the staging table's line number is the unique index.


#### Build 10.0.27.202209301
Release date: 30 September 2022 <br> 
Excludes Inbound Transportation management (ITM) & ITM version Freight forwarder

<ins>New features</ins>

**Core module**	- Applies to all modules

Number	| Functionality	  	| Reason
:--	|:--		  	|:--	
10549	| CAR report		| CAR resolution
10549	| Workspace		| Workspace pattern version changed from 1.1 to 1.2
10297	| XSLT scripting	| Due to MS deprecating XSLT scripting, the **Enable XSLT scripting** option has been removed from **EDI shared parameters**
8408 <br> 11577	| Data entities		| EDI fields 'Inner unit' and 'Outer unit' added to standard entity **Released products V2** <br> EDI entities added: **EDI Azure sites**, **EDI Azure container setup** and **EDI Web API settings**

**Customer module**	

Number	| Functionality	  	| Reason
:--	|:--		  	|:--	
11255	| Customer purchase order	| Applicable to where store code isn't used and the order refers to a new customer address. Previously if the new address couldn't be created, the sales order was created without a delivery address. Now it will rather error the staging record, so the address details can be fixed and the sales order created with a delivery address. Example: EDI order's delivery address refers to a state that can't be found in D365, i.e. Victoria instead of VIC.
4470	| Customer purchase order	| New field **Item description** added to 'Customer purchase order' and 'Customer purchase order change'. When these documents create a new sales order line, new field **Item description** (available on EDI tab on sales order lines) will be populated.

**Vendor module**	

Number	| Functionality	  | Reason
:--	|:--		  |:--	
11185	| Purchase invoice	| Related to 10372, but calculation has been updated to include equal. <br> If the Shipped quantity is higher **or equal** to the Invoice quantity, the 'Product receipt quantity to match' will be set to _Invoice quantity_
11272	| Vendor purchase order	| New header fields **Requester email** and **Requester phone** added to 'Vendor purchase order' and 'Vendor purchase order change' documents



<ins>Bug fixes</ins>


**Customer module**	

Number	| Name		 | Description
:--	|:--		 |:--
11309	| Validate on Sales order	| **Validate** button is now disabled on Sales order when the Document status is set to _Tax invoice_. 
10648	| POA		| When a sales line is out of stock, still send unit price on Customer purchase order acknowledgement.



**3PL module**	

Number	| Name		 	| Description
:--	|:--		 	|:--
10527	| Picking list		| When generating the Picking list and unticking **Send to EDI**, the picking list staging record was still created.


#### Build 10.0.27.202209302
Release date: 30 September 2022 <br>
Includes Inbound Transportation management (ITM) & ITM version Freight forwarder of 10.0.27.20220930
	

