---
layout: releasenotes-content
header: Security Insights for D365 FO
title: 10.0.44.20251017
release-version: 10.0.44.20251017
markAsPrevious: true
---

### Release 10.0.44.20251017

#### Recordings

The following recording is available for this release:
- [Security Insights for Microsoft Dynamics 365 FO to optimize user licensing – Oct 2025 update](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7rC7uf1fM5M&list=PLIM01nS-jtL-D-wvUbmncSwy3PYjLuig5&index=1)

#### Build 10.0.44.202510171
Release date: 17 October 2025

<ins>New features</ins>

Number	| Name		 | Description
:--		|:--	     |:--
23142	| Security governance	| In 10.0.44 MS introduced new tables specifying user licensing requirements. We have now aligned our **build logic** to the newer model of D365 licensing from Security Governance. This aligns us to **License usage summary** and their new sets of licenses. Additional functionality we offer, not available in std: <br> • Actual usage and highlights unused license types <br> • Summarised / applicable values and license spread - We only show the license count applicable to the user's required license types, but also indicate what would be the minimum license for the menu item. Where a user requires multiple license types, we spread the license count to the lowest priority applicable license. For example if the user needs SCM and Finance licenses, the menu item count will only be included in the lowest priority license applicable for that menu item and user. Thus if it could be accessed by SCM and Finance, only Finance count will include this menu item for this user. This makes it simpler to see if a license type is unused based on actual user access. <br> • Microsoft Entra ID users  <br>  <br> The following updates have been made to **Security insights by user** page: <br> • Button **Build license information** - uses new model of D365 licensing tables to build user licensing information. Also doesn't reset fetched data anymore. <br> • License types - the columns indicating applicable licenses matches to new sets of licenses, for example includes Finance premium. <br> • New fields **Minimum recommended license** and **Active user license** in FastTab 'Menu items for selected privilege'. Example: The user requires SCM and Finance license, if the menu item can be write accessed by the lower priority license 'Finance', **Active user license** would be 'Finance' for this user. **Minimum required license** will indicate the lowest priority license that can write access this menu item, for example 'Operations - Activity'. Thus if this is the only 'Finance' accessed menu item by the user, they could be moved to a different role that excludes the other Finance menu items, and only include 'Operations - Activity' menu items which could reduce their required license from 'Finance' to 'Operations - Activity'.  Blank values would be the 'Not required' records in 'License usage summary'.  <br> <br> The **unused license types** can still be highlighted on user, roles, duties and privileges with colors to indicate that those license types could be removed from the user, by modifying the role or replacing with lower license roles to save user licensing costs. <br> <br> [User guide](Review.md) <br> <br> **Notes**: <br> • The data entity 'Insights for user access and security’ has been deprecated as it is no longer relevant. Previously D365 didn't have the breakdown of menu items linked to privileges, duties, roles and user, which is now available in Security governance. <br> •  We've removed page 'Security insights by license'. Std 'License usage summary' provides a license top-down view, we aim to include our usage data to the std form in next release.

<ins>Bug fixes</ins>

Number	| Name		 | Description
:--		|:--		 |:--
24311	| Security diagnostics	| Error 'Object reference not set to an instance of an object'. Related to telemetry capturing extensions.