---
# required metadata

title: [Finance Utilities ]
description: [to Finance Utilities - Bank Reconciliation Worksheet ]
author: [helenho]
manager: Kym Parker
ms.date: 02/03/2021
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: dynamics-ax-applications
ms.technology: 

# optional metadata

# ms.search.form:  [Finance Utilities ]
audience: [Application User]
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: [helenho]
ms.search.scope: [Which Operations client to show this topic as help for, to be set by content strategist, see list here: https://microsoft.sharepoint.com/teams/DynDoc/_layouts/15/WopiFrame.aspx?sourcedoc={23419e1c-eb64-42e9-aa9b-79875b428718}&action=edit&wd=target%28Core%20Dynamics%20AX%20CP%20requirements%2Eone%7C4CC185C0%2DEFAA%2D42CD%2D94B9%2D8F2A45E7F61A%2FVersions%20list%20for%20docs%20topics%7CC14BE630%2D5151%2D49D6%2D8305%2D554B5084593C%2F%29]
# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
# ms.custom: [used by loc for topics migrated from the wiki]
ms.search.region: [Global]
# ms.search.industry: [leave blank for most, retail, public sector]
ms.author: [helenho]
ms.search.validFrom: [September 2017]
ms.dyn365.ops.version: [name of release that feature was introduced in, see list here: https://microsoft.sharepoint.com/teams/DynDoc/_layouts/15/WopiFrame.aspx?sourcedoc={23419e1c-eb64-42e9-aa9b-79875b428718}&action=edit&wd=target%28Core%20Dynamics%20AX%20CP%20requirements%2Eone%7C4CC185C0%2DEFAA%2D42CD%2D94B9%2D8F2A45E7F61A%2FVersions%20list%20for%20docs%20topics%7CC14BE630%2D5151%2D49D6%2D8305%2D554B5084593C%2F%29]
---

## 3.3.	Bank Reconciliation Worksheet

***<span style="font-variant:small-caps;"> CASH AND BANK MANAGEMENT  &gt;
BANK STATEMENT RECONCILIATION  &gt;BANK RECONCILIATION – WORKSHEET  </span>***

Improved reconciliation worksheet matching capability.

### 3.3.1.	Run Matching Rules
The matching rule capability has been extended, and is activated when this process is executed from the Bank reconciliation. The Configuration section is where the facilities may be set up;
- The Contains and Included in capability
- The transaction Document grouping capability

### 3.3.2.	Marking and Matching Capability
Several changes have been implemented to improve the usability of the matching, including;
-	In standard you must highlight to match. This functionality allows the user to filter, check, filter again and check another record and match
-	Corrections (reversals) can be performed in line with the record

The changes required to support this functionality in the Bank reconciliation Worksheet are;
-	The addition of new buttons to facilitate Marking and Matching 
-	The additional Mark and Match Id columns
-	New checkboxes to keep the reconciled totals up to date, on the form
-	The standard click on Match re-sorts and removes filter; the filter is now retained.

#### 3.2.1.1	New Buttons

<table>
    <tr>
                 <td>  <b> Buttons </b> </td> 
                 <td>  <b> Description </b> </td>         
   </tr>   
    <tr>
       <td> <b> Match ID Button </b></td>    
       <td> Users can manually click this button when the system does not automatically assign a match id on mark transactions. </td> 	   
    </tr> 
    <tr>
       <td> <b> Remove Match ID Button </b></td>    
       <td> Once clicked this will remove the Match ID on both sides but will retain the mark on the ‘Mark’ checkbox column </td> 	   
    </tr>  
    <tr>
       <td> <b> Clear All Button </b></td>    
       <td> “Clear All” button will unmark all transactions marked with match id transactions on both sides from the open statement and open bank document sections.
            This removes all the match ids on both statement and bank transaction. They are marked for matching where match ids are already assigned
        </td> 	   
    </tr> 
    <tr>
       <td> <b> Mark filtered bank statement transactions button  </b></td>    
       <td> This will allow the user to Mark All filtered lines in the bank reconciliation worksheet for the Bank statement transactions grid </td> 	   
    </tr> 
    <tr>
       <td> <b> Mark filtered bank transactions button  </b></td>    
       <td> This will allow the user to Mark All filtered lines in the bank reconciliation worksheet for the Bank transactions grid </td> 	   
    </tr> 
    <tr>
       <td> <b> Maximise / Minimise </b></td>    
       <td> Maximise and Minimise the unmatched transactions section </td> 	   
    </tr> 
</table>

#### 3.2.1.2	Mark and Match Id Columns
These columns provide more visibility of the matching process 

<table>
    <tr>
                 <td>  <b> Columns </b> </td> 
                 <td>  <b> Description </b> </td>         
   </tr>   
    <tr>
       <td> <b> Mark Checkbox </b></td>    
       <td> This checkbox allows the user to match statement lines against bank transactions. It validates the following: </td> 	   
    </tr> 
     <tr>
       <td> <b>  </b></td>    
       <td> -	When all lines with same “MATCH ID” are unmarked on the Statement side, the system prompts a warning “Unmatch all of match id” When users click Yes on the warning message the corresponding lines with the equivalent “MATCH ID” on the bank transactions side are unmarked automatically by the system. If users click No on the message, users must manually unmark the corresponding entries. When the users unmark the corresponding entries, the Match id disappears. </td> 	   
    </tr> 
    <tr>
       <td> <b>  </b></td>    
       <td> - When all lines with same “MATCH ID” are unmarked on bank transactions side, the system would prompt a warning “Unmatch all of match id” When users click Yes on the warning message the corresponding lines with equivalent “MATCH ID” on statement lines are unmarked automatically by the system. If users click No on the message, users must manually unmark the corresponding entries. When the users manually unmark the corresponding entries, the Match id disappears. </td> 	   
    </tr> 
      <tr>
       <td> <b>  </b></td>    
       <td> -	The new “MARK” checkbox will update the Total amount, Open Amount and Matched amount that appears on top of open statement lines and open bank documents from Bank reconciliation worksheet.  </td> 	   
    </tr> 
    <tr>
       <td> <b>  </b></td>    
       <td> -	The new “MARK” checkbox will also update the Unmatched amount and the total amount that appears at the bottom of open statement lines and open bank documents from Bank reconciliation worksheet.  </td> 	   
    </tr> 
     <tr>
       <td> <b>  </b></td>    
       <td> - “Mark” column is also added on the “Matched Document” section of bank reconciliation worksheet. </td> 	   
    </tr> 
    <tr>
       <td> <b> Match Id </b></td>    
       <td> This unique ID identifies which transactions are matching on both sides of the reconciliation worksheet. This is automatically assigned by the system based on the number sequence setup. </td> 	   
    </tr>            
    <tr>
       <td> <b>  </b></td>    
       <td>  This button validates the following:
              -	Matching is ONE TO ONE
              -	Matching is ONE to MANY
              -	Matching is MANY to ONE
              -	Matching is MANY to MANY
              -	Matched transaction amounts on both sides are equal.
      </td> 	   
    </tr>   
    <tr>
       <td> <b>  </b></td>    
       <td> Match ID column is also added on the “Matched Document” section of the bank reconciliation worksheet.
            Match ID can be auto assigned by using the Finance utilities parameter Auto assign Match id
        </td> 	   
    </tr> 
      <tr>
       <td> <b>  </b></td>    
       <td> Steps required when Finance utilities parameter Auto assign Match id is
            -	Enabled:
                o	Mark bank statement and bank transactions
                o	If balances: click Match. Match id is auto assigned
            -	Disabled:
                o	Mark bank statement and bank transactions
                o	Click Match Id
                o	Click Match
      </td> 	   
    </tr> 
</table>

#### 3.2.1.3	Check Boxes Showing Reconciled Totals

These totals assist with balancing the in-progress Matching.

<table style="width: 100%">
    <tr>
          <th WIDTH="15%" > <b> Location of Totals </b>  </th>
          <th WIDTH="25%"> <b> Check Box </b> </th>
          <th WIDTH="60%"> <b> Description </b> </th>  
   </tr> 
   <tbody>
   <tr rowspan = "3">
        <td rowspan = "3"> <b> Top of Open Statement lines </b></td>    
        <td colWidth= "2" > <b> Total amount </b> </td> 	   
        <td rowspan = "3"> These totals are updated when the Mark checkbox is activated or deactivated on the Bank Statement transactions </td>
    </tr> 
    <tr>
       <td> <b> Matched amount </b></td>      	   
    </tr>    
    <tr>
       <td> <b> Unmatched amount  </b></td>     	   
    </tr> 
    <tr rowspan = "3">
        <td rowspan = "3"> <b>Top of Open Transaction lines </b></td>    
        <td colWidth= "2" > <b>Total amount</b> </td> 	   
        <td rowspan = "3"> These totals are updated when the Mark checkbox is activated or deactivated on the D365 Bank transactions</td>
    </tr> 
    <tr>
       <td> <b> Matched amount </b></td>      	   
    </tr>    
    <tr>
       <td> <b> Unmatched amount </b></td>     	   
    </tr>  
    <tr rowspan = "3">
        <td rowspan = "3"> <b>Bottom of Open Statement lines </b></td>    
        <td colWidth= "2" > <b>Number of Transactions Marked</b> </td> 	   
        <td rowspan = "3"> These totals are updated when the Mark checkbox is activated or deactivated on the Bank Statement transactions</td>
    </tr> 
    <tr>
       <td> <b> Total Amount Marked </b></td>      	   
    </tr>    
    <tr>
       <td> <b> Unmatched amount </b></td>     	   
    </tr>  
    </tbody>
</table>

### 3.3.3.	Mark as New Extended Financial Details

If the Extended financial details for new transactions parameter has been set, these Financial details are available from the Bank reconciliation, on new Fast tabs (General and Financial dimensions), for the user to review or change
-	The additional detail can also be populated when a transaction is selected from the Mark as new button
-	When a line is set as Mark as new’ the GL journal creation includes the additional default settings from the ‘Extended financial details’


