---
# required metadata

title: Finance Utilities 
description: Accounts payable processing - Vendor Payments 
author: jdutoit2
manager: Kym Parker
ms.date: 2024-03-20
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: dynamics-ax-applications
ms.technology: 

# optional metadata

ms.search.form:  LedgerJournalTable5
audience: Application User
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: jdutoit2

# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
# ms.custom: ["21901", "intro-internal"]
ms.search.region: FinanceUtilFeature
# ms.search.industry: [leave blank for most, retail, public sector]
ms.author: helenho
ms.search.validFrom: 2016-05-31
ms.dyn365.ops.version: AX 7.0.1
---

**Accounts payable functionality**
The features as described in the following subsections are available for additional functionality for Vendor payments.

# Vendor payment journal
Setup requirements are discussed in detail at [Vendor payments setup](../../Setup/ACCOUNTS-PAYABLE/Vendor-payments.md). <br>

## Payment proposal
The following Vendor payment journal fields can be populated by Finance Utilities Accounts Payable functionality when the journal lines are created via payment proposal: 
- **Lodgement reference** - [BPAY method of payment](BPAY-payment.md)
- **Sundry invoice details** - [Sundry method of payment](Sundry-payment.md)
  - Sundry vendor name
  - Sundry address
  - Sundry BSB\routing number
  - Sundry bank account

## Generate payments
The following fields can be updated on the Vendor payment journal lines after the payment file has been generated using **Generate payments**:
- **Payment reference** - [Setup](../../Setup/ACCOUNTS-PAYABLE/Vendor-payments.md#automatic-generation-of-payment-reference)
- **Export file name** - Export file name displayed on the Generate payments dialog is written to the relevant vendor payment journal lines
     - Note: This does not yet include file names generated by Electronic reporting config
     - [File name setup](../../Setup/ACCOUNTS-PAYABLE/Vendor-payments.md#eft-file-name-generation)

### Save payment file to secure location
When the EFT payment file is generated by using an Electronic reporting format, the file can also be automatically saved to an Azure blob, SFTP or FTP. <br>
[More details](Save-electronic-reporting-file-to-secure-location.md)

# Payment advice report
A custom-built report has been developed to provide a remittance advice to vendors upon processing a payment run. The report will show the vendor bank account details where the payment is deposited, as well as the invoices numbers paid, what amount and what discount applied. This remittance advice report works in conjunction with the **Smart Send** Emailing functionality. The report is available when Payment status is Sent.

The Payment advice report can be used in conjunction with sending via Email to the Vendor. Access to the new form is available from:
-	Accounts payable payment journal, from 'Accounts Payable > Payments > Payment journal' – when set as Sent the journal line is available for printing
-	Vendor's transactions
-	Payment history on the vendor

# Payments report
When creating a **Vendor payment journal**, it can be useful to print the **Payments** report to reconcile vendor bank details, before generating the EFT file.
Finance utilities has added the following fields on the right for each Vendor payment line:
- Vendor bank name
- Vendor BSB
- Vendor account



