---
# required metadata

title: Finance Utilities 
description: Introduction to Finance Utilities 
author: jdutoit2
manager: Kym Parker
ms.date: 2023-03-29
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: 
ms.service: dynamics-ax-applications
ms.technology: 

# optional metadata

# ms.search.form:  Finance Utilities 
audience: Application User
# ms.devlang: 
ms.reviewer: jdutoit2
# ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
# ms.custom: ["21901", "intro-internal"]
ms.search.region: Global
# ms.search.industry: [leave blank for most, retail, public sector]
ms.author: helenho
ms.search.validFrom: 2016-05-31
ms.dyn365.ops.version: AX 7.0.1
---

# DXC Finance Utilities

## Release notes
The [release notes](Release-notes.md) describes the features that are either new or changed. 

## Introduction
The DXC Finance Utilities module provides enhanced functionalities to Microsoft Dynamics 365 for the following:

-   **Cash and bank management**
    -   Bank statement import formatting
    -   Advanced bank reconciliation, including:
        -   Extended matching functionality, including improved handling of Marked and Matched transactions
        -   Additional capability when using ‘Mark as new’ facility
        -   Ability to reconcile a small balance correction adjustment
        -   Ability to prevent reconciliation of unmatched statements
    -   Periodic task to automatically import bank statements from FTP/FTPS, SFTP or Azure blob. Decryption option included.
-   **Accounts payable**
    -   Sundry vendor payment management
    -   BPAY vendor payment
    -   Formatted Vendor Payment Advice
    -   ABN lookup and validation (Australia only)
    -   Save GER to secure location, for example FTP/FTPS, SFTP or Azure blob. Encryption option included.
    -   Vendor bank account changes workflow
- **Accounts receivable**
    -   Customer bank account changes workflow
    -   ABN lookup and validation (Australia only)
- **Budgeting**
    -   Budget import with separate column for each period


#  Scenarios
## Cash and bank management

The Cash and Bank Management department can build bank statement format matching with the bank account statement files generated by Bank(s). The finance utilities provide a simplified platform to define the bank statement format definition for various file types.
DXC Finance Utilities supports the following formats:
-	Flat file
-	NAI
-	BAI2
-	Custom
-	BRS
-	GHS

The Custom format provides some flexibility on configuring additional formats.

The Bank account statements can then be imported into Dynamics 365 based on the statement format definitions. 
 
Matching rules can be executed either during or after the import, to automatically match the bank statement transactions to Dynamics 365 bank transactions. Also, bank transactions can be automatically created, posted and reconciled based on configured matching rules. 
 
Finance utilities minimises the manual actions required for reconciling bank account statement(s) with bank transactions processed in Dynamics 365FO. 

### Setup
- [Financial utilities parameters](Setup/CASH-AND-BANK-MANAGEMENT/Finance-utilities-parameters.md)
- [Bank statement format](Setup/CASH-AND-BANK-MANAGEMENT/Bank-statement-format.md)
- [Populate accounts payable document number](Setup/CASH-AND-BANK-MANAGEMENT/Populate-account-payable-payment-document-number.md)
- [Bank reconciliation matching rules](Setup/CASH-AND-BANK-MANAGEMENT/Bank-reconciliation-matching-rules.md)
- [Customer payment and settle of one invoice via bank reconciliation](Setup/CASH-AND-BANK-MANAGEMENT/Bank-reconciliation-matching-rules.md#customer-payment-and-settle-of-invoice-11)

### Processing
- [Bank statement import](Processing/Bank-Statement-Reconciliation/Bank-statement-import.md)
- [Bank reconciliation worksheet](Processing/Bank-Statement-Reconciliation/Bank-reconciliation-worksheet.md)
- [Reports](Processing/Bank-Statement-Reconciliation/Cash-and-bank-management-reports.md)

### Setup for automatic import of bank statement
- [Encryption/decryption](Setup/ENCRYPTION/Encryption-decryption.md) - where the import file should be decrypted
- [Financial utilities connections](Setup/CASH-AND-BANK-MANAGEMENT/Finance-utilities-connections.md)
- [Bank accounts](Setup/CASH-AND-BANK-MANAGEMENT/Bank-accounts.md)
- Periodic task [Import bank statements via financial utilities connection](Setup/CASH-AND-BANK-MANAGEMENT/Bank-statement-import.md)

## Accounts payable - Sundry

The Sundry Payment modification gives the user the ability to enter a supplier name and address on an individual invoice allowing these details to be used on a cheque payments, as well as one-off BSB and Account Number for EFT Payments. Therefore, many one- time vendor invoices can be stored on one sundry vendor record but allowing for separate payments without a change to the vendor record information.  This also makes it possible to pay all sundry invoices in one payment proposal.

- [Sundry setup](Setup/ACCOUNTS-PAYABLE/Sundry-payment.md)
- [Sundry processing](Processing/Accounts-Payable/Sundry-payment.md)

## Accounts payable - BPAY

The BPAY method of payment modification provides the ability to set BPAY required fields on the Vendor and Company bank account. Flagging the method of payment as BPAY, sets the BPAY fields as mandatory for invoice transactions. 

When invoice transactions are created for vendors with a BPAY method of payment, the BPAY fields are auto populated from the Vendor details. The BPAY fields can also be entered or edited at time of invoice entry. Posting validation confirms all mandatory BPAY fields are entered else the posting will fail. 

Within the Vendor payment proposal, grouping also occurs for the new BPAY field.

- [BPAY setup](Setup/ACCOUNTS-PAYABLE/BPAY-payment.md)
- [BPAY processing](Processing/Accounts-Payable/BPAY-payment.md)

## Accounts payable - Payment advice report

A custom-built report has been developed to provide a Payment advice to vendors upon processing an EFT payment run. The report will show the vendor bank account details where the payment is deposited as well as the invoice numbers paid, what amount and what discount applied. This remittance advice report works in conjunction with the Smart Send function.

- [Vendor payments setup](Setup/ACCOUNTS-PAYABLE/Vendor-payments.md)

## Accounts payable - Vendor bank account changes workflow

Finance utilities have added additional fields to Vendor approval on the **Accounts payable parameters**. This provides companies the option to submit changes to these fields to the standard vendor approval workflow.
- [Vendor bank account changes worklow setup](Setup/ACCOUNTS-PAYABLE/Vendor-bank-account-changes-workflow.md)

> Note: From 10.0.32 MS has added a preview feature called 'Vendor bank account change proposal workflow'. If this feature is enabled it will use std's functionality for approving changes to Vendor bank accounts and the following needs to be manually configured: <br> 
>   -  Vendor bank account approval in Accounts payable parameters - Enable the fields that requires approval
>   -  Workflow approval for proposed vendor change. Workflow to approve the proposed vendor bank account changes

## Accounts payable - Save electronic reporting file to secure location

Modification allows users to automatically save the electronic reporting file to a secure location like ftp, ftps, sftp or azure blob.
- [Encryption/decryption](Setup/ENCRYPTION/Encryption-decryption.md) - where the export file should be encrypted
- [Save electronic reporting file to secure location setup](Setup/ACCOUNTS-PAYABLE/Save-electronic-reporting-file-to-secure-location.md)
- [Save electronic reporting file to secure location processing](Processing/Accounts-Payable/Save-electronic-reporting-file-to-secure-location.md)

## ABN lookup and validation
> Note: Only applicable to Australia. 

Where the company has registered to use ABN lookup Web API and the legal entity setup in D365, it is possible to lookup and validate customer and vendor’s ABN in D365.
- [ABN lookup and validation setup](Setup/ABN/ABN-lookup-and-validation.md)
- [ABN lookup and validation processing](Processing/ABN/ABN-lookup-and-validation.md)

## Budget import

Ability to import budget file with monthly columns.
The modification gives the user the ability to set the budget import file's format and financial dimensions included in the file.

- [Budget import setup](Setup/BUDGETING/Budget-import.md)
- [Budget import processing](Processing/Budgeting/Budget-import.md)
- [Example file format](Processing/Budgeting/Example-file-format.md)

# Other

### Data entities
Finance utilities include data entities to support its enhancements to D365.
The data entities include Finance utilities tables and also enhances existing standard entities.

- [Data entities](Other/Data-entities.md)

## Security configuration

The following roles are included in the Finance utilities module: 
- Finance utilities manager
- Finance utilities clerk

## FAQ

See our FAQ for general information and troubleshooting.

- [FAQ](FAQ.md)

## New ideas
Have a suggestion for new product or new feature for existing product? [Suggest a New idea](https://forms.office.com/r/U9twpSt3in)

## Brochure
The following brochures are available:
- [Automate and leverage your solution with DXC Finance Utilities for Dynamics 365](https://dynamics.dxc.technology/microsoft-dynamics-365/dxc-finance-utilities-for-dynamics-365-brochure)

